This type of question is critical. Variations include "What are your strengths?" Or "What makes you a good fit?" Or, "What makes you different?" Or, "Why should we hire you?" And these questions offer you the best opportunity to sell your qualifications for the position. Unfortunately, most people are terrible at selling themselves. So we're going to prepare you. After all, interviewers want to know what sets you apart from the competition. That's the whole purpose of the interview.


They also want to make sure that your strengths align with the company's needs. They want to feel confident that you have what it takes to do the job well and very importantly, they want to get a sense of how you approach work. What do you like to work with on a day to day basis? What can they expect from you in terms of work ethic, creativity, problem-solving, all of those core competencies that influence how well you perform on the job? This should be a straightforward question. It should be something you look forward to, right. It's positive. They want to know what's so great about you. So where do people go wrong?



Well, a lot of job seekers just don't spend enough time analyzing their strengths and thinking about what makes them different. That's why you hear so many lame answers like, "I'm a people person", "I'm a team player." It makes sense. We don't walk around our day to day life talking about how great we are. So it's out of your comfort zone. It can feel like bragging or just feel awkward but an interview is different from every other social interaction in your life. You have a very brief opportunity to make them love you and want to hire you.


You don't have time to be awkward or shy or hope they read between the lines of your resume. Modesty is another factor. I work with a lot of one on one interview coaching clients who are incredibly accomplished and talented but also humble. It might be because they're introverts or a little on the quiet side or often they just don't have a lot of experience talking about themselves. They haven't ever really had to sell themselves or maybe not for a long time at least. You have to learn to get over any hesitation to say nice things about yourself.


You can talk yourself up in a way that feels comfortable and authentic if you prepare in advance. We'll get to that in just a moment but first, how do you choose which strengths to talk about? Even if you have a pretty good idea which strengths are your most impressive, I find that it's helpful to brainstorm. Your knee jerk answer may be selling your ability short. Make a list of at least five of your greatest strengths focusing on professional strengths, of course. These can be classic personality strengths like creativity or persistence or attention to detail.



They can also be areas of hands-on expertise or experience like a programming language or a successful budget management track record or stellar sales results. They can be softer skills like leadership, problem-solving, or resourcefulness. Make a list of as many of your strengths as you can think of. You can edit and prioritize the list later and remember a longer list will give you more options for tailoring for different opportunities. If you get stuck, here are a few ways to expand your thinking. First, you can ask a trusted friend or colleague for their input.


Sometimes we become so focused on our day to day work that we lose sight of what's great about us and what people admire about us. Sometimes it's hard for us to analyze ourselves objectively. Another strategy is to go back to your performance reviews and analyze the positive feedback. Think about some of the most memorable compliments that you've received. You can also try analyzing your resume in more detail. Take a step back, look for common themes in your achievements and then think about what strengths were required for you to accomplish what you did.



These strengths will come with built-in examples that you've already identified in your resume. So once you have a nice healthy list of strengths, you're off to a great start. But it's not enough to just list a bunch of strengths in an interview. You have to be able to talk about each strength in a convincing and memorable way. To prepare to do this, write a brief proof point for each strength. A proof point can be a single example that shows the strength in action or can be a more general but still detailed overview of how you've displayed that strength over time.



A more general proof point might be something like, "I have more than six years of people management experience and I've been recognized as one of the most effective managers in our division. I've been consistently promoted to manage larger teams and currently, I have 18 people in four locations reporting into me and I've had zero percent turnover in the last year." Notice it's an overview but it still has nice detail to set this candidate apart. Here's another proof point that focuses more on a specific example to illustrate. "One of my strengths is my strong work ethic.



When I commit to a deadline, I do whatever it takes to deliver. For example, last week we had a report due and we got some numbers back late from our team in Singapore. I pulled an all-nighter to finish the spreadsheet because I knew that the client had to receive the report on time." Anyone can claim to be a hard worker but this candidate talks specifically about how he embodies his strength by being reliable, deadline-driven, and committed to meeting those deadlines. Hard worker is the common answer but this candidate makes it his own. Once you have a proof point for each strength, it's time to prioritize your list. In any one answer, you'll only have time to discuss three strengths maximum. You still want to keep your overall answer to less than two minutes and you'll have to be concise and prepared to fit three strengths in under two minutes. So decide, which of the three strengths are most compelling. You can adapt your list from interview to interview. One position may be all about managing people while another may put more emphasis on technical skills, for example. It's also very useful to be prepared to talk about more than three strengths.


Once you have five-plus strengths fresh in your mind and feel comfortable talking about them, you'll be able to spot opportunities to bring them out. Perhaps when walking through past positions or in your behavioral stories your spare strengths will come in handy, I promise. So how do you prioritize your strengths list to make sure you're focusing on the most impressive ones? Avoid these common mistakes. One, don't choose a generic strength unless you have a great specific proof point. If 90% of your friends could claim the same strength like being a people person then you probably need something better. A great proof point can rescue a generic strength however as we saw in the previous example. You also want to avoid "weak praise." The classic example which I've heard many times from coaching clients is, "I'm pleasant to work with and get along with everybody." That's great and you should definitely be communicating that in the course of the interview but if that's your greatest strength, it's pretty weak praise. Most people are pleasant enough to work with. Not everyone of course but you can do way better than this. Finally, don't pick irrelevant strengths.



If the job has nothing to do with sales skills, for example, if you're changing careers you don't want to talk at length about your sales prowess. Make sure you're focusing on what's really truly relevant. Take the time before each interview to identify the best strengths for that opportunity. Look at your prioritized list of five plus strengths and see if you want to make any adjustments to your top three. Once you have your list of strengths and proof points, you want to be prepared to communicate them effectively. That means practice, of course.




You also want to make sure you're looking for opportunities to bring your strengths out in the interview. Naturally, you can use them to respond to direct questions about strengths and fit. However, you can't count on every interviewer to ask the right questions. You should walk into every interview with a clear goal, to communicate your greatest and most relevant strengths to the interviewer because that's how you make it to the next level whether that's another interview or getting a job offer. If the interviewer doesn't hear about these strengths, he or she is not going to know what a great fit you are.




So you've got to go in with a proactive attitude knowing that yes, I am prepared to answer the questions that are asked but I also know what the points are that I want to make in this interview. Where can you talk about your strengths if they don't ask a straight-up strengths question? You can underline your strengths in your answers to behavioral questions. If you haven't checked out our lesson on answering behavioral questions check that out next. You should definitely have a strong behavioral example that illustrates each of your greatest strengths. This is important because if someone asked you what your strengths are and you list them, they may very well zero in on one of those and say, "Tell me about a time when you demonstrated that strength." Other behavioral questions can also be opportunities to bring out strengths. For example, if you get a cliché behavioral question like, "Tell me about a time you worked on a team." You could showcase a story that demonstrates your teamwork ability along with another strength like communicating effectively. And the final step in being 100% prepared to ace the question about strengths is to practice. Once you've done the work of outlining your strengths, your proof points, and your stories, your content will be on point but you need to make sure your delivery is also polished and confident. Practice will help you get more comfortable with "bragging" about yourself, something that can feel really uncomfortable until you get a feel for it. It will make you feel more natural and help you focus your answers and this is particularly true if you tend to be a bit more on the modest side. If you feel weird talking about yourself, selling yourself, then you definitely need to practice. You can start with our top 10 questions practice set which includes the strengths question along with others that you want to practice. Once you've identified your strengths, develop your proof points, and strength stories and spend time practicing. You will be more than ready to wow them in any interview.
