2345 Frederick Street
Omaha, Nebraska 68123
(402) 489-3421
imasample6@xxx.com
PROFESSIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
 Extensive technical and management experience in information systems technology with a
solid academic background in computer information systems and business administration.
 Excellent communicator with strong leadership skills and the ability to build cohesive,
productive teams while fostering and encouraging creativity and individual expression.
 Areas of expertise:
Operations Management
Project Management
Quality Management
Mainframe & PC Operations
Software Development
Systems Design
Customer Relations
Technical Support
Troubleshooting
WORK EXPERIENCE
Supervisor, Financial Systems, Omaha Public Power District, Omaha NE (2015 to present)
Oversee the maintenance and enhancement of financial systems to ensure process integrity and
system stability for user areas.
Significant Accomplishments
 Managed the implementation of a major software upgrade, significantly increasing efficiency
in the use of accounts payable and purchasing systems.
 Converted contract and payee information from a third party system to an internal automated
system, resulting in approximately $72,000 in annual revenue for the organization.
 Developed a cohesive, productive work team of individuals from diverse areas of the
organization, utilizing strong interpersonal and leadership skills to foster and encourage
teamwork and cooperation among team members and with user areas.
 Utilized TQM principles to implement several internal process improvements that have
resulted in hundreds of time-saving hours annually.
 Promoted into management position after only six months as a Systems Analyst.
Programmer/Analyst, Bishop Clarkson Hospital, Omaha NE (2010 – 2015)
Provided systems support and enhancements to user areas throughout the hospital.
Significant Accomplishments
 Developed and implemented an automated system for processing employee timesheets, thus
eliminating the need for handwritten timesheets.
 Researched, designed and developed a new software application now being used by
managers throughout the organization for strategic planning and reporting.
 Recognized as Information Systems Employee of the Year for the high quality of customer
service provided and the successful resolution of numerous systems problems.
Page One of TwoIM A. SAMPLE VI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page Two of Two
WORK EXPERIENCE (Continued)
Senior Computer Operator, Bergen Mercy Hospital, Omaha NE (2000 – 2010)
 Supervised shift operations and staff, trained employees, developed work schedules and
monitored work performance.
 Operated IBM and Digital systems; identified and resolved problems to assure smooth and
efficient system operations.
EDUCATION
MBA with Concentration in Management Information Systems
Bellevue University, Bellevue NE
Expected Graduation: June 20xx
Bachelor of Science, Bellevue University, Bellevue NE (20xx)
Major: Computer Information Systems
Minor: Business Administration
GPA: 3.45/4.00
GPA in major: 4.00/4.00
Dean’s Scholar
Certificate in Computer Programming
Electronic Computer Programming Institute, Omaha NE (20xx)
TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS
C, C++, Visual Basic, COBOL
Windows 9x/200x/XP
Advanced Microcomputer Applications
UNIX/Linux
Management & Design of Database Systems
SQL
Relational Database Management
Microcomputer Graphics/Mapping
MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Access)
