Jax Sampson

(111) 789-3456

jax.sampson@email.com

19-Aug-19

Dear Hiring Manager,

I am delighted to apply for the Accounting Assistant position at Flagship Engineering. The opportunity to potentially work for your company, which has been recognized as the quickest-growing operator in the field of civil engineering, excites me as I continue to seek new accounting challenges. As someone who has spent multiple years in public practice, I possess an in-depth understanding of the U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) as well as the basics of internal auditing. I believe that my knowledge would match this job opening very well.

During my previous roles with companies such as Crossover Software and Foundry Marketing, I worked as the Accounting Assistant to the CFO and lead internal auditor, respectively. These experiences gave me an outstanding perspective on the fruitful implementation of new accounting software and consistent adherence to the rapidly evolving laws of business. I also developed outstanding communication skills that let me work with practically anyone and helped me coordinate dozens of projects that had a 95% combined rate of timely completion.

I would also like to stress my ability to support accounting seniors by completing all of the delegated tasks effectively. With over 400 hours of continuing education, I have an excellent understanding of potential areas of practice where businesses may face issues. This allowed me to identify and proactively resolve countless issues that reduced my prior employer's need to halt accounting operations by 45%. I further thrive in public speaking engagements organized at professional workplace settings.

I am grateful for the opportunity to receive your consideration for the Accounting Assistant position. Thank you for the time spent reviewing my application. I look forward to any subsequent interaction where I will be more than happy to discuss the specific nature of my prior experiences in more detail. I hope to become a part of the Flagship Engineering's team and join the effort to rebuild communities in a sustainable manner.

Sincerely,

Jax Sampson