13 Tips For Standing Out On Your Next Job Application
Forbes Human Resources Council
Forbes Human Resources Council
COUNCIL POST| Membership (Fee-Based)
POST WRITTEN BY
Expert Panel, Forbes Human Resources Council
Jun 17, 2019,01:15pm EDT|8,790 views
When applying for a job, you may be one of the hundreds or thousands that are all going for the same position. It can be a real challenge to get recognized and land that job that you are so fiercely competing for.

With a little effort, however, you can learn how to stand out from the crowd and win that employer over. Whether by using creative techniques such as creating a personal brand video and leveraging social media, or by going the more traditional route of showcasing your experience and developing strong communication skills, there are several strategies you can use.

For the best strategies, we asked 13 members of Forbes Human Resources Council to share their input on the most effective things job candidates can do to get noticed by recruiters.

Forbes Human Resources Council members share their best tips for standing out to recruiters.
Forbes Human Resources Council members share their best tips for standing out to recruiters.PHOTOS COURTESY OF THE INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS.
1. Be Perceptive

If a candidate can show they are really perceptive to what the real need is in the job description, they can stand out. This is beyond just repeating buzzwords or listing the same skills. It’s truly ensuring the resume is reflective of how they can make a difference by demonstrating they understand what it will take to be successful in the role and can be the solution the role is designed to address. - Hafiza Gujaran, AlixPartners

2. Have Good Communication Skills

What’s the one requirement employers list for every job? Good communication skills. Candidates who can demonstrate this in their emails, conversations, resume, cover letter and application materials are already ahead of the game. In addition, those with an interest in writing and whose communication skills extend to blogs, articles and social media posts truly set themselves apart from others. - John Feldmann, Insperity

Forbes Human Resources Council is an invitation-only organization for HR executives across all industries. Do I qualify?
3. Showcase Your Point Of View

Regardless of level, companies look to hire individuals who can replicate success and bring innovative solutions to their organization and industry. Candidates should consider showcasing their ideas and thought leadership by writing an article on a relevant industry challenge or topic. This will increase your visibility and demonstrate you have a point of view. - Geline Midouin, McCann Health

4. Leverage Your Network

Do your research and see what connections in your professional or personal network may lead you to a great contact within the organization. Ask for introductions and referrals. If you don't have a connection to someone in the organization, consider reaching out to someone on the recruiting or hiring team to establish rapport and express your genuine interest in the company and role.  - Alina Shaffer, LivingHR, Inc.

5. Customize, Customize, Customize

Candidates must customize their resume for every job. The day of a single resume for all applications is outdated. For every application, the candidate must review the job description and then customize their resume to the exact specifications listed. Frontline recruiters are looking for the candidates that best fit the initial parameters. - Ben Weber, Vendor Resource Management

6. Focus On Outcomes And Impact

Most resumes are a list of responsibilities. Stand out by including what outcomes you have achieved and what impact you have made by doing the things that you have done. Don't just say that you lead a team of 20 people. Talk about how you have taken your team from a 20th percentile engagement group to a 90th percentile engagement group. - Lotus Buckner, NCH

7. Showcase Your Skills In Relevant Ways

Showcasing achievements in unique ways can really help candidates stand out⁠—like the candidate who submitted her resume in chocolate or the engineering graduate who built his own portfolio platform to land a job out of college with NASA. A portfolio approach is relevant across industries, differentiates candidates and helps them prove their skills while demonstrating organizational fit. - Jeff Weber, Instructure

8. Quantify Accomplishments

One way to stand out from the crowd is to ensure that your accomplishments are quantifiable. They should be expressed in terms of numbers, percentages or time frames. Then be prepared to answer follow-up questions on specifically how you accomplished that feat with compelling examples that you could replicate at another company. - Sherrie Suski, Tricon American Homes

9. Voice Your Interest Directly

Standing out can be difficult, especially when competition is high. One common factor for hiring managers is time. Even with technology supporting applicant reviews and rankings, hiring managers still have functional areas to run, so a little creativity goes a long way. Candidates should consider contacting the hiring manager directly to express their interest and value they bring to the position. - Dr. Timothy J. Giardino, Cantata Health & Meta Healthcare IT Solutions

10. Create A Short Personal Brand Video

Applicants should create a short personal brand video that gives an employer a sense of their skills, achievements and personality, then link to it at the top of their resume or provide it in an online application. Ensure the video is professional, clean and culturally appropriate to hiring companies. That way, employers can quickly gauge an applicant’s work and demeanor to see if they’re a fit. - Genine Wilson, Kelly Services

11. Use Social Media To Connect

Join social media groups that pertain to your career choice and follow the company (or companies) you’d like to work for. Then, interact with the company on Twitter and Instagram in a positive and professional way. This gets your name in front of them and shows the hiring manager your personality before they even meet you. - Greg Furstner, SkillPath

12. Create A Stellar LinkedIn Profile

There's nothing more disappointing than getting inspired by an awesome resume and then visiting that candidate's LinkedIn profile to see unprofessional pictures, date and job discrepancies with the resume and nothing else of interest. Seeing the causes they care about that may align with our company's mission definitely (in addition to a stellar resume) elevates that candidate's status compared to peers. - Rachel Lyubovitzky, EverythingBenefits

13. Add Colors To Your Resume

Adding different colors to your resume can make a big difference. Different behavioral styles respond to different colors⁠—notice that many large companies use colors in their logos. However, using too much color or creativity could be distracting. So use good judgement. Make sure the resume is formatted correctly and spelling is correct. Have a few different people review it for you. - Frank Molinario, Security First Insurance Company Inc
