987 Northridge Drive
Omaha, Nebraska 68123
(402) 543-1234
imasample5@xxx.com
PROFESSIONAL PROFILE
Self-motivated, resourceful and dynamic leader with extensive experience and a strong
educational background in management, training and employee development; exceptional
communication skills and a demonstrated ability to create and manage cohesive, productive work
teams; proficient in the use of Microsoft Word, Excel and other software applications.
PROFESSIONAL SKILLS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Management and Administration
 Directed, guided and motivated a workforce of up to 300 individuals with diverse technical
backgrounds and experiences.
 Successfully improved work performance of a “marginal” work team, as evidenced by an
increase to a “satisfactory” performance rating after only six months as team leader.
 Provided day-to-day supervision for an administrative staff of up to sixty employees.
 Planned, designed and coordinated the programming of computer-based products; designed
and coordinated computer system testing in facilities throughout the world.
 Planned, developed and administered annual budgets ranging from $150,000 to $300,000.
Training and Development
 Taught college level courses in leadership, management, team building, effective writing and
speech communications.
 Certified as Master Instructor; designed and developed curriculum; selected, trained and
evaluated other instructors.
 Advised and educated personnel on ways to enhance and strengthen their promotability and
job performance; identified and documented career development plans for employees.
 Provided on-the-job training and guidance for new employees.
Communication and Counseling
 Conducted formal investigations and utilized a variety of counseling techniques and
strategies to successfully resolve highly complex and sensitive issues involving domestic
abuse, racial discrimination, minor law infractions and academic failures.
 Worked one-on-one with customers and employees to enhance self esteem and resolve
communication problems.
 Marketed and promoted company programs to employees and the general public through a
variety of activities including presentations to audiences of over 1000 people.
 Established and maintained effective working relationships with co-workers, superiors and
subordinates to facilitate the achievement of business objectives.
CONTINUED . . . . . . . . . . .IM A. SAMPLE V
Page Two
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Bachelor of Science in Management (20xx)
Bellevue University, Bellevue, Nebraska
GPA: 4.00/4.00
Dean’s Scholar
Graduated with Professional Honors
Associate of Applied Science in Communications Technology (20xx)
Community College of the Air Force
Numerous workshops, courses and seminars dealing with leadership development,
management, TQM, interpersonal communications, curriculum development and related topics
Department of Defense and Air Force Training Schools
Certified as Total Quality Management Facilitator
Qualified Master Air Training Command Instructor in Leadership and Management
WORK HISTORY
Various Positions of Increasing Responsibility and Leadership
United States Air Force (20xx to present)
 Currently serving as Squadron Operation Superintendent.
 Scheduled to leave the Air Force in September 20xx.
VOLUNTEER/COMMUNITY SERVICE
Coach, Youth Soccer, Bellevue Boys Club
Unit Coordinator, U.S. Savings Bond Drive
